# covid-19-sentiment-analysis
The COVID-19 pandemic has had an impact on people's daily lives all around the world. People all over the world utilise social media to express their opinions and sentiments about the epidemic that has disrupted their daily life, both in general and during lockdown periods. Twitter has seen a tremendous spike in tweets on coronavirus in a short amount of time, including positive and negative messages. In the meantime, Nepali tweets have also been spiked. Due to the various nature of tweets, the researchers perform sentiment analysis and assess the various feelings of the public around COVID-19 pandemic. 
In the case of English and a few other languages some gold standards have been devised for the purpose of text classification. A variety of natural language processing techniques have been investigated. However, for Nepali language there are no exact standards yet. 
This research looked at the modern sentiment classification methods and approaches. Here in this dissertation problems, concerns, and possibilities are identified in order to effectively retrieve the sentiment in Nepali subjective literature. Using Machine Learning (ML) classifier algorithms such as Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, XGB Classifier, Decision Tree, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbour etc. And Deep Learning (DL) classifier algorithm LSTM a model is created to identify aspect-based sentiment in Nepali text. The system gathers Nepali text data from twitter, removes unnecessary content such as punctuations, emojis, etc. Each sentence is manually labelled (1: positive and 0: negative) in order to determine the sentiment of the text. The Term Frequency for Machine Learning models are calculated using the (TF-IDF) method. The resulting vectors are then applied to Classifier algorithms as per deep learning based classification, keras Tokenizer has been applied for generating vectors and are passed to LSTM model so that these models can predict and classify sentiment of phrase. SVM classifier Logistics Regression, Bernoulli NB, XGB classifier, MLP classifier K Nearest Neighbour, Decision tree, Random Forest, LSTM Classifier gave an accuracy of 78.66, 76.04, 71.49, 76.16, 76.21, 68.27, 71.08, 77.66, 82.11 percentage respectively with similar score of precision 83, 80, 69, 81, 75, 54, 72, 85, 86 percentage respectively while the recall score were 77, 75, 74,75, 78, 78, 71, 75, 81 percentage and f1 score with 80, 77, 71, 78, 76, 64, 72, 80, 83 percentage respecitvely. The LSTM model provides best accuracy of 82.11%.
